- Software architecture and design
    - architecture represents a **critical link** between **requirements and implementation**
    - user needs --> architecture --> product deliverables

# Architecture Design
- how a software system should be orgaanized; its overall structure and the interfaces it supports
    - includes its context, moddule/class structure an interfaces
- the link between requirements engineering and detailed design
    - this might be representedd with use cases, sequence, activity, and state diagrams showing how the system delivers is functionality
- an early stage of agile processes
    - redoing a system can be costly becasue it can affect so many conmponents of the system
    - providing up front organization to the development can save consierable rework at later stages
- Simplifying design activities
    - we never know everything about a system up front
    - patterns and styles are tools for he archiec and designer
- architectural patterns
    - a means of represeningg, sharing, and reusing knowlegde
    - a stylizedd descripion of good design practice, which has been tried an tested in different environments
    - patterns can appear obvious because they are so widely used
    - Patterns include information about when they are and when they are not useful
    - Patterns may be represented using tabular and graphical descriptions.
- Value of the model view controller
    - removes the viewing dependancy from the model
    - keeps the view reusable without modification even when the controller changes
    - controller interprets users' actions and provides data to the view
    - tthe view displays tthe model's data, and sends user actions to the controller
    - reduces complexity, adds flexibility, and promotes reuse
    - MVC is now a common patterns for web-based exchanges
        - browser provides the view
        - web apps providde the controller
        - web pages are the model

# client-server architecture
- disruibuted system model which shows how data and processing is distribued across a range of components
    - can be used with a single compuer
    - ofen used with a service on multiple redundant computers
- includes 
    - stand alone servers which provide specific services such as prining, data management, ec
    - clients which call on these services
    - Network which connects the clients and servers
# layered architecture
- Layered architectures are used to model the interfacing of sub-systems.
- Organizes the system into a set of layers (or abstract machines) each of which provide a set of services to the layer above it.
- Supports the incremental development of sub-systems in different layers. When a layer interface changes, only the adjacent layer is affected.
- Layers can be distributed (vertically) across computer instances.
- However, it is sometimes artificial to structure systems in this way.

# Real-time & "embedded" systems
- Software is used to control a wide range of systems from simple domestic machines, through games controllers, to vehicles and entire manufacturing plants.
- Such software must react to events generated by the hardware and, often, issue control signals in response to these events.
- The software for these systems is embedded in system hardware, often in read-only memory, and usually responds, in real time, to events from the system’s environment.
- Responsiveness in real-time is the critical difference between embedded systems and other software systems, such as information systems, web-based systems or personal software systems.

# Characteristics of embedded software

- Embedded systems generally run continuously and do not terminate.
- Interactions with the system’s environment are unpredictable.
- There may be physical limitations that affect the design of a system.
- Direct hardware interaction may be necessary.
- Issues of safety and reliability may dominate the system design.
- These systems use different architecture patterns than those typically used by information systems

# Pipe and filter architecture

- Functional transformations process their inputs to produce outputs.
- Sometimes referred to as a pipe and filter model (as in UNIX shell).
- Variants of this approach are very common. When transformations are sequential, this is a batch sequential model which is extensively used in data processing systems.
- Not suitable for interactive systems but used in both information and embedded systems.
- Embedded variation called a Process Pipeline pattern

# Repository architecture

- Sub-systems must exchange data. This may be done in two ways:
  - Shared data is held in a central database or repository and may be accessed by all sub-systems;
  - Each sub-system maintains its own database and passes data explicitly to other sub-systems.

- When large amounts of data are to be shared, the repository model of sharing is most commonly used since this is an efficient data sharing mechanism.
- Artificial intelligence and language translation systems often use variants of the repository architecture

- Knowledge sources and/or knowledge bases are used to determine how the program will react to input (the state of the data determine the reaction)

# Examples of application types

- Data processing applications, e.g., a billing system
  - Data driven applications that process data in batches without explicit user intervention during the processing.
- Transaction processing applications, e.g., reservation system
  - Data-centered applications that process user requests and update information in a system database.
- Event processing systems, e.g., an alarm system
  - Applications where system actions depend on interpreting events from the system’s environment.
- Language processing systems, e.g., compiler or interpreter
  - Applications where the users’ intentions are specified in a formal language that is processed and interpreted by the system.
